# Ibalance
## Introduction
This project is for CS6491. The main introduction has been stated in the submission document. Here are some additional notes.

This demo actually comes from a project I am working on now.The main idea that using ILP to balance the SV graph is proposed by my supervisor Dr. Li. 

The **output** content includes some test files. 

my.checked.lh: The original file to construct a graph.

myseek.lh and myseek.mps.gz: Input file for Cbc ILP solver.

myseek.sol: Solution offered by Cbc

my.balance.lh: Final graph balanced by Cbc(generated by parseILP script)

**For .lh file, lines before SEG tag are some basic informations. lines start with SEG are vertices of our graph, split by TAB, the first ont is segment info, next sequence depth (used for calculate observed copy number c(t), next the balanced copy number offered by ILP solver Cbc. Lines start with JUN are edges for graph.)**

This project is constructed by cmake. If you want to run this demo project, you need install Cbs lib(https://github.com/coin-or/Cbc)

The **src** code.

The main code about ILP is in Balance.cpp where we formulate our problem for Cbc solver. And other classes is for constructing graph mostly

## Run
install:

Using cmake to make the project.
mkdir build

cd build

cmake ..


step 1: Ibalance check output/my.checked.lh output/myseek, formulate problem.

step2: cbc output/myseek.lp solve solu output/myseek.sol, solve by Cbc

step3: python main.py parseILP -i output/my.checked.lh -s output/myseek.sol -o output/my.balanced.lh， parse the result.
